# Security Check Before Deploying

---

### Goal

Check the system before deploying it. Make sure it is safe to deploy on the Internet. This check will perform on three parts: frontend, backend and database.

At the end of this check, it should produce a document / check list which can help later developer to check their system security.

---

### Steps

1. Frontend

> After reviewing my previous code, I would suggest that there is no critical or sensitive data in the frontend part. Meanwhile, I think it is also worth mentioning that sensitive data such as user password or user email address shouldn't be stored in the frontend part. 
> 
> In our model, frontend is mainly used for representing data. It should obtain all data needed from backend, and backend should protect them.

2. Backend

> (1) Overall backend security rules
> 
> Originally, in Django, I used system environment variables to protect whatever I would like to hide from other developers when uploading my code to github. However, it seems that this is not going to work in js. Therefore, I decide to use an older technique, which is store everything sensitive in a js file and choose not to synchronize this file.
>
> It is worth mentioning that this IS DANGEROUS in some cases. So if there is any other better solutions, DO NOT use this one. Because you might (according to my experience, very likely) upload your sensitive data by mistakes. It might be caused by github settings changing, or file path changing etc. Anyway, you'll have many chances to upload your sensitive data by mistake. So, doulbe check your git push summary :D.
>
> (2) SQL login credits
>
> In sqlConfigs.js, the database credits are stored. It is very important to change them after deployed. The code is:
> 
> ```js
> module.exports = {  
>  mysql: {   
>    host: '192.168.240.141',     
>    user: 'root',   
>    password: 'Mypassword',  
>    database:'expressdb', 
>    port: 3306  
>  }
> };
> ```
> 
> So I have changed it to obtain data from .secret.js and export its data:
>
> ```js
> import { mysql } from '../../.secret.js'
> 
> module.exports = {  
>   mysql
> };
> ```
>
> (3) Encryption Tokens
> 
> In app.js, the main entrance of express, there are two encryption tokens which are used for encrypting the cookies and sessions. They are used as following:
> ```js
> app.use(cookieParser('xmdsmdsjy,xmdy'));
> app.use(session({
>   name: 'xmdsmdsj.login',
>   secret: 'xmdsmdsjy,xmdy',
>   resave: true,
>   saveUninitialized: false,
>   cookie: { maxAge: 60 * 60 * 24, httpOnly: true }
> }));
> ```
> 
> And now they are changed to:
> 
> ```js
> let cookieEncryptionToken = require('./.secret.js').cookieEncryptionToken;
> let sessionEncryptionToken = require('./.secret.js').sessionEncryptionToken;
>
> app.use(cookieParser(cookieEncryptionToken));
> app.use(session({
>   name: 'xmdsmdsj.login',
>   secret: sessionEncryptionToken,
>   resave: true,
>   saveUninitialized: false,
>   cookie: { maxAge: 60 * 60 * 24, httpOnly: true }
> }));
> ```
>

3. Database

> 
> 

---

### Todos

1. Maybe consider later to disable Vue devtool on our website.