# Authentication System Part 2

## Authentication System on Frontend

---

### Goal

In this part, I'll try to build a log in pannel in the frontend. This is quite straightforword. It has the following requirements:

1. There is a little button on topleft called 'log in / register'
2. When cilcked, it will buring the user to a log in page and notify the user that register is currently not opened.
3. The log in pannel should allow the user to log in by email and password
4. Once logged in, change the topleft 'log in / register' button to another button which has the name of that user.
5. Use fake data in this process. DO NOT use data from backend. That is what we will do next.

---

### Steps

1. Change the position of 'about' and place 'log in / register' button at where the 'about' was

> First, align 'about' to the left after 'up coming'. 
> Then create an authentication page at that place
> After that, create two components: 'log in' and 'register' for this page.
> Finally, add those two componenets to that page. Let that page switch them based on user's choice.
> 
> 
> (I've just noticed that log in operation can be done only by vue. So may check that later and have a try.)
> 
> 
> Remeber to mention two pages on the same view.
> 
> 

2. Change header to show logged in user.

> After making the login / register pannel, now we need to make our header to show logged in user's infomation. And the header should keep showing that infomation until the user close browser or logout manually. 
> 
> And one inportant point, the header will keep showing that infomation acrossing different pages.
> 
> To do this, we need to keep some infomation (here is the login information) acrossing different pages. To do this, it seems that we need to introduce vuex to our frontend.
> 
> 
> Before this, let me introduce one of my important decision. In backend and frontend design, there are many different ways to divide the works for backend and frontend. Here I decide to use "thin server fat client" mode. Which means our server in this situation, will only be used to provide data through certain APIs, and let the clients to perform the computing works. 
> 
> In this mode, we will open two ports on our server. One is 80, used for normal visit. Which is known as our frontend. The other one can be any other port, here we will use 8085. The backend will provide its APIs through that port. 
> 
> The advantages of this mode can be summarized into followig three points:
>> 1. I don't have much money to run this server, so I have to shift the presure on my server side to client side.
>>
>> 2. It is currently a trend to use "fat client". Because this will allow the client to perform many complicated works. Although we don't need those hugh computing power at this stage, it is good to design our platform in this way jsut in case we may need it someday.
>>
>> 3. In this mode, the frontend and backend are completely separated. If two groups engineers work on this at the same time, they only need APIs to be agreed and they can develop the backend and frontend respectively.
> 
> Of course there are many disadvantages of this mode. In a long time before, people choose to use "thin client" and let the server to finish most of the jobs. However that is beyond our discussion here and we may discuss that later.
> 
> Anyway, here we will use vuex to store the logging infomation so that the frontend can decide when and why to verify the current user. Once the frontend needs to verify the current user, it should send a request with the user credits to the backend API and the backend should respond with the verification result.
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 

### To be improved

1. I forgot to make authentication page into two components. Make sure do that later.