# Login From Frontend

## Connect All Web Components Together

---

### Goal

Now, we have deployed our web online in cloud. The next step to do is connecting every part together. In this task, we choose to let user login from the frontend.

Overall, the login process can be divided into the following three sub-parts:

1. Frontend receive user data and send these data by Json to backend.
2. Backend receives these data and validate it. If the form of data is legal, request data from database.
3. Database search data based on the key given by backend. Send the results back to backend.
4. Backend receives the results from database, send it back to frontend. In this part we do need to worry about cookies or sessions, so in the frontend, it needs to change page according to different users.
5. Frontend receives the data. Show a page to tell the user whether it's successful or not. And change pages accordingly if logging in succeeded.

---

### Steps

1. Finish our frontend virtual data provider.

> To accelerate our development procedure, I will try to use a "dev", "test", "prod" to control my frontend environment settings. Details could be found in Vue's [offical document](https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/mode-and-env.html#modes)
> 
> I choose to build my data provider in src/components/utils/ and call it "DataProvider.js". In this js file, it will respond different APIs based on the mode. If it is "development", it will construct fake data and feed it to the frontend. If it is "production", it will fetch the data through given API from backend.
>
> In short, it will change the way of obtaining data based on the mode using.
>
> During developing this, I found that the built frontend version, the "index.html" cannot be openned in my browser. This might be caused by the setting of building. However, it is not my major work now and I think I'd better deal with it later.
> 
> Anyway, after I deployed it to my local server, everything works fine. So the data provider is now working.

2. Finish our frontend user data showing part

> Like most modern webpages, once login is succeeded, our website can show user's name on the top right side of the nav bar on the top. And, most importantly, it will not disappear if the user changes pages within our site or refresh pages within our site.

3. Add the same keys to database

> Based on our local test database (I have set local database colunms) Set database on the server based on that.
>
> Currently, my local database name is "expressdb" and it contains only one table called "User". In the "User" table, it has columns:
> ```
> 
> ```
>
> 

4. Set backend environment variables

> Like the frontend, the backend also need to be set to three different environments: "dev", "test", "prod". And it seems that express is not support this by itself. So I will develop a very simple environment variable controller for it at this stage.

5. Finish backend part

> Simply receive data from frontend, validate, send it to database. And receive results from database, set cookies and sessions, send results to frontend.

6. Overall test

---

### Todos

1. Try to introduce test modules into our project. Such as Mocha etc. More important, consider how to test our code.

2. Try to download my database on the cloud back to local machine. This will at least teach me how to backup data for the future. 

3. Solve the built frontend index.html cannot be openned problem. Related infomation could be found at [here](https://www.jianshu.com/p/aae355d692a1)