# Run Our Web

## Run the web we have built so far

---

### Goal

1. Use docker to help deploy our web.
2. Build Vue, Express, MySQL into three containers and use docker-compose to run them all at once.
3. Test Vue
4. Test Express using Postman
5. Test MySQL using MySQL Workbench
6. Deploy whole web to digital ocean server.
7. Do some operations on that server, try to add some data into that database.
8. Try to download that database back to local test server.
9. Based on the step above, write a script to download data from our online server automantically.

---

### Steps

1. Using docker to deploy our Vue part code
>
> This has been finished and I will not repeat that here.
> 
> Strange problem when changing directory. It is reported that
> ```bash
> web_1  | 2019/05/30 09:30:33 [warn] 1#1: the "user" directive makes sense only if the master process runs with super-user privileges, ignored in /etc/nginx/nginx.conf:1
> web_1  | nginx: [warn] the "user" directive makes sense only if the master process runs with super-user privileges, ignored in /etc/nginx/nginx.conf:1
> web_1  | 2019/05/30 09:30:33 [emerg] 1#1: unexpected end of file, expecting ";" or "}" in /etc/nginx/modules-enabled/50-mod-http-image-filter.conf:1
> web_1  | nginx: [emerg] unexpected end of file, expecting ";" or "}" in /etc/nginx/modules-enabled/50-mod-http-image-filter.conf:1
>
> ```
>
> Compaing to that, the normal information was:
> 
> ```bash
> web_1  | 2019/05/30 09:18:01 [warn] 1#1: the "user" directive makes sense only if the master process runs with super-user privileges, ignored in /etc/nginx/nginx.conf:1
> web_1  | nginx: [warn] the "user" directive makes sense only if the master process runs with super-user privileges, ignored in /etc/nginx/nginx.conf:1
> ```
>
> After carefully inspected that file, I didn't find any problem in it. It can work originally, however it is not working now. Which makes me quite confusing.
>
> What makes the whole thing even worse, when I revert my commit, the problem was just gone.
>
> Then, I realized that this might be caused by different line ender of windows and linux? So, I go back to older commit and download the working code back again and hoping to find the differences between them.
>
> However, the problem is far more complicated than I thought. No matter how I tried, as long as the file is copied into Windows system, it is changed immediately and no longer work. For example, if I have a working copy of my code, I copy it to windows system, do nothing, copy it back, and now it's not working. And the amazing point is that if I sync my windows and linux by github, there will be no problem and everything works fine.
> 
> So, since I have no way to deal with it, I gave up and reset my commit to before makinh changing directory operation. 
> 
> In summary, this is caused by the link file in linux, when copied into windows, it is broken and become a plain text file now. I also noticed that if I use linux to check the property of the original file and the file copied from Windows, the second file is "plain text" rather than "link" in linux.
>
> So, for now, I've using linux to change the directory and everything works fine now. Still, I didn't find a way to use these linux link files on Windows. If you copy or move any linux link files with windows, it will be changed into plain text later when used on linux.
>
> Maybe I can add this to my todo list: try to find a way to deal with linux link files on Windows :D.


2. Using docker to deploy MySQL
> 
> Based on what has been introduced online, try to deploy our database, MySQL
> 
> Building finished. Not tested yet. 
> 
> Do remember to change the password when deploying. Write a document for later developer to check so that they can know where to change before deploying. (I have worte that in the main README.md file.)

3. Using docker to deploy Express
>
> First, I tried to use a docker file to directly build a node environment, copy my files in and run node. After that, expose my ports to outside. So my docker file is like
> ```docker
> FROM node:latest
> 
> RUN mkdir -p /server
> WORKDIR /server
> 
> COPY ./express /server
> RUN npm install
> ```
>
> And in my docker-compose file I put:
> 
> ```docker
> server:
>     build: ./Server/server
> 
>     ports:
>       - "3000:8085"
> 
>     command: [npm, 'start']
> ```
>
> Now it works properly and I can visit it through the 3000 port.
> 
> But in this way, it is clear that we didn't apply nginx on our backend container. It might need more improvements.

---

### Todos

1. Find a better way to store password in github. Since our website will be open to everyone online, it is not a good idea to save our password in our github repo.

2. Am I using RESTful style in my backend (APIs) programming?