# Special Work

## Improve Appearance

---

### Goal

In this part, I'll do some extra improve work to make my web looks better. This is not part of my main job since I'm now focusing on technique part rather than UI design part. However, because my web so far is really ugly (Sorry to say that :( ), I think it is necessary to make some improvements there.

There is no explicit goals for this part. I will just record what I have changed in the following 'steps' part to remind myself.

---

### Steps

1. Improve the appearance of .md files.

> At this stage, these articles are really looking bad. Especially for the code part. So first of all, I need to improve the appearance of our .md files.
> 
> When I looking for some plugins to help me improve my .md files appearances, I found a plugin called [mavonEditor](https://github.com/hinesboy/mavonEditor) on github. So I thought if something can help me build an online editor, it will not be a problem for it to show my .md files better.
> 
> Then I spent some time to install this plugin and play with it. I would like to say that this plugin is easy to use. It is powerful and has well edited documentations. The instasll instruction, usage instruction and API documents are clear and easy to follow.
> 
> After including this plugin, now I can easily edit my documents online. However, the .md files displaying problems are still remaining. So, followed the way mavonEditor hightlighted the code in it, I downloaded and try to use the plugin called [Highlight.js](https://github.com/highlightjs/highlight.js)
> 
> According to [highlight.js之vue指令——排版高亮网页代码块](https://blog.csdn.net/littlebearGreat/article/details/81131463) and [在Vue中使用highlight.js](https://segmentfault.com/a/1190000008188461), We need to create a new file and use ```Vue.directive``` and ```Vue.install = function (Vue, options) {}```  to install highlight.js in Vue. 
> 
> However, before I even start doing that, I found a blog [Vue编写markdown或者展示markdown](https://blog.csdn.net/wn1245343496/article/details/82147850) which illustrated how to use mavonEditor to display .md file rather than providing an editor. And after I tried that, I found it is very easy to use. So at this stage, I'll stick on this solution. Maybe I'll change this later when I decide to develop my own online editor/displayer.

2. Build user info page

> Our user info page hasn't been finished yet. Originally there is no design for it. I just show the user's articles when the user logged in. But, this shouldn't be the correct layout. Usually on the user's page, it will show some user infomation, allowing them to switch between different functional areas. So this would be our choice.
> 
> In our user page design, first, we will show the user's avatar and their name. At the left top of the page. Then, followed by it, a working area be divided into two parts: the left side is the sidebar and the right side is the functional area, which will be used to show some certain infomation and allow users to make some operations.
> 
> 

---

### Todos

1. I used ```Vue.directive``` and ```Vue.install = function (Vue, options) {}``` again when I try to register highlight.js with Vue. Read related documents to learn how this working and why this working.